### <h1 align="center" id="title">IGM module oggm_shop </h1>

# Description:

This IGM module uses OGGM utilities and GlaThiDa dataset to prepare data 
for the IGM model for a specific glacier given the RGI ID (parameter `oggm_RGI_ID`), check at [GLIMS VIeWER](https://www.glims.org/maps/glims) to find the RGI ID of your glacier (now available for RGI 6.0 and 7.0G - if you the IDs for 7.0C, download the shapefiles and have a look in your GIS software). IGM will default to RGI7.0G; this can be changed with parameter 'oggm_RGI_version' and set to 6. If using RGI7.0, IGM assumes 7.0G; if you want to use C, this behaviour can be changed using the parameter 'oggm_RGI_product' (this is a string so the acceptable values are "G" and "C"). By default, data are already processed (parameter `oggm_preprocess` is True), with spatial resolution of 100 m and an oggm_border size of 30 m. For custom spatial resolution and size of 'oggm_border' to keep a safe distance to the glacier margin, one needs to set `oggm_preprocess` parameter to False, and set `oggm_dx` and `oggm_border` parameters as desired. 

The module directly provides IGM with all 2D gridded variables (as tensorflow objects), which are accessible in the code with e.g. `state.thk`. By default a copy of all the data are stored in a NetCDF file `input_saved.nc` so that this file can be read directly in a second run with module `load_ncdf` instead of re-downloading the data with `oggm_shop` again. The module provides all data variables necessary to run IGM for a forward glacier evolution run (assuming we provide basal topography `topg` and ice thickness `thk`), or a preliminary data assimilation/inverse modelling with the `optimize` module (typically `icemaskobs`, `thkinit`, `uvelsurf`, `vvelsurf`, `thkobs`, `usurfobs`).

Data are currently based on COPERNICUS DEM 90 for the top surface DEM, the surface ice velocity from (Millan, 2022), the ice thickness from (Millan, 2022) or (farinotti2019) (the user can choose with parameter `oggm_thk_source` between `millan_ice_thickness` or `consensus_ice_thickness` dataset). 

When activating `oggm_include_glathida` to True, ice thickness profiles are downloaded from the [GlaThiDa depo](https://gitlab.com/wgms/glathida) and are rasterized with the name `thkobs` (pixels without data are set to NaN values.) if using RGI 6.0. With RGI 7.0, the GlaThiDa data are downloaded for the specific glacier (defined by the RGI ID) from the OGGM server and are found as a text file in the download folder created by this module (glathida_data.csv), from where they are subsequently read in, rasterised, and NaNs added where there are no observations.

Other module parameters are fairly self-evident - see the list on the Github or at the start of the code - save for two: oggm_sub_entity_mask should only be set to true if using RGI7.0C and the infer_params option in the optimize module (see the documentation for that module); otherwise, ignore it. The other is oggm_run_batch, which is here purely to be declared in a module; it relates to modifications to igm_run (not yet on the repository) to allow IGM to run an internal loop of RGI IDs, so should also be ignored as things stand. Both parameters default to False, so should not cause any problems unless explicitly activated.

The OGGM script was written by Fabien Maussion. The GlaThiDa script was written by Ethan Welty & Guillaume Jouvet. RGI 7.0 modifications were written by Samuel Cook.

The module depends (of course) on the `oggm` library. Unfortunately the module works on linux and Max, but not on windows (unless using WSL).
